Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/XXX/PIA-0XX [Title] 
Page 1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Privacy Impact Assessment 
for the 
Acquisition and Use of License Plate Reader 
(LPR) Data from a Commercial Service 
DHS Reference No. DHS/ICE/PIA-039(b) 
May 21, 2021 
 


 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 2 
 
Abstract 
In 2017, the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement (ICE) procured query -based 
access to a vendor -owned commercial License Plate Reader (LPR) data service that stores 
recorded vehicle license plate data from cameras equipped with LPR technology. ICE uses LPR 
data from thi s service in support of administrative and criminal law enforcement missions. In 
March 2015, ICE published a Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) announcing the intention to 
procure access to a commercial LPR database. In December 2017, ICE updated this PIA 
indicating that ICE had entered into a contract with a vendor to provide ICE Offices of 
Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) and Homeland Security Investigations (HSI) 
access to an LPR database operated by a commercial partner.  
Both the 2015 and 2017 PIAs describe privacy and civil liberties compliance through ICE-
implemented controls. ICE is updating this PIA to document enhanced LPR functionality that 
will be available to select authorized ICE personnel, including: (i) geographic query – conducting 
a query with-in a specified geographic area (HSI personnel only); (ii) plate partial query; and (iii) 
and the mobile ap-plication with phone scan feature (collectively referred to as “enhanced LPR 
functionality” throughout this PIA). This update further explai ns ICE’s operational use of these 
capabilities and associated privacy risks.  
 
Overview 
Use of LPR data is an investigative technique with evolving functionality that supports ICE 
criminal investigations and administrative immigration enforcement efforts i n furtherance of its 
public safety and national security missions. 
In March 2015, ICE published the DHS/ICE/PIA-039 Acquisition and Use of License Plate 
Reader Data from a Commercial Service PIA, 1 which documented ICE’s intention to procure  
access to a vendor-owned commercial LPR data service to be used by ERO and HSI (hereinafter, 
the vendor and commercial LPR partner are referred to collectively as “vendor”). The PIA also 
described the privacy protections that would be included in any executed contract t o ensure  
implementation of privacy and civil liberties requirements. These provisions included DHS and 
ICE policies on: racial profiling, use of the technology at sensitive locations, 2 and verifying the 
accuracy of LPR data before taking enforcement actio n. ICE published the 2015 PIA before  
 
1 See U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, U.S IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT, PRIVACY 
IMPACT ASSESSMENT FOR THE ACQUISITION AND USE OF LICENSE PLATE READER (LPR) DATA FROM A COMMERCIAL 
SERVICE, DHS/ICE/PIA-039 (2015), available at https://www.dhs.gov/privacy-documents-ice. 
2 See U.S. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT POLICY 10029.2, ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS AT OR FOCUSED 
ON SENSITIVE LOCATIONS (2011), available at https://www.ice.gov/doclib/ero-outreach/pdf/10029.2-policy.pdf. 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 3 
 
identifying a vendor that could meet all the privacy requirements outlined in the document. ICE 
did not enter into a contract with such a vendor until 2017. 
In December 2017, ICE published a PIA update 3 indicating that ICE had entered into a 
contract with a vendor to obtain access to a commercial LPR database, owned and operated by 
the vendor. The PIA update further explained ICE’s operational use of the service and described 
the agency and vendor implementation of privacy and civil liberties protections.  
The commercial LPR database stores vehicle license plate numbers that are recorded from 
cameras equipped with LPR technology. There are two primary sources of LPR data: (1) data 
from law enforcement owned LPR cameras; and (2) data from commercial LPR cameras. When 
ICE receives a query response of the LPR database, the returned data contains a photo of the 
license plate on a vehicle, the location of the scan, and the time of the scan from the specific 
camera. A variety of government and private sources provide data to the commercial database.4  
ICE does not contribute data to the commercial LPR database in furtherance of any other 
agency’s use. Additionally, the commercial LPR vendor is not permitted to use any of ICE’s 
query data, including photographs, for its own purposes. The LPR vendor is not permitted to 
share ICE query information with third parties without ICE’s express permission, including other 
customers, business parties, or any other individual or entity.  
This PIA update discusses, ICE’s use of enhanced LPR technology: (i) geographic query, 
(ii) partial plate query, and (iii) mobile scanning feature, discussed in detail in the “Reason for 
PIA Update” section below. This PIA also discusses “pattern of vehicle movement” data and LPR 
incidental (or collateral) image collection.  
Enhanced LPR functionality enables criminal investigators with only limited information 
to identify suspect vehicles in furtherance of a law enforcement inve stigation. Enhanced LPR 
data assists ICE in developing and validating law enforcement leads. These leads are based on 
the location of vehicles that are associated with ICE administrative and criminal investigations. 
LPR data can be combined with other inve stigative methods and techniques to further develop 
critical evidence for prosecutions.  
Individual Rights and Liberties: 
The 2015 and 2017 LPR PIAs discussed civil liberty concerns, such as racial profiling, 5 use 
 
3 See U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, U.S. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT, PRIVACY 
IMPACT ASSESSMENT FOR THE ACQUISITION AND USE OF LICENSE PLATE READER DATA FROM A COMMERCIAL 
SERVICE, DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) (2017), available at https://www.dhs.gov/privacy-documents-ice. 
4 These sources include: toll road cameras, parking lot cameras, vehicle repossession companies, and law 
enforcement agencies. Law enforcement LPR sources include: pole cameras, vehicle mounted cameras, and in -
person handheld cameras. 
5 See supra note 3 for a full discussion of issues relating to individual rights and liberties raised by the use of the 
LPR service. Further, see U.S. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT, PRIVACY POLICY GUIDANCE, AGENCY 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 4 
 
of the technology at sensitive locations,  and verifying the accuracy of LPR data before taking 
enforcement action. ICE continues to value  and abide by the relevant policies described in these 
two PIAs, as well as the Department of Justice policy guidance.6  
ICE will also update its agency -wide LPR privacy guidance requirements to incorporate 
information regarding enhanced LPR functionality. ICE continues to ensure that enhanced LPR  
functionality can be used consistent with restrictions on surveillance of sensitive locations and First 
Amendment-protected activity.  
 
Reason for the PIA Update 
This PIA is being updated to inform the public of ICE’s evolving uses of the following of 
commercial enhanced LPR functionalities: (i) the geographic query; (ii) the partia l plate query; 
and (iii) updates to the mobile application. These enhancements expand how ICE will use LPR 
technology and access LPR data.  At this time, the geographic query will only be used in 
furtherance of HSI criminal investigations and will not support ERO’s immigration enforcement 
mission. 
ICE’s 2017 PIA indicated that all queries must include a full license plate number. With 
this update, ICE is outlining how authorized ICE personnel 7 can now conduct a query within a 
specified geographic area or by entering a partial license plate. Authorized ICE personnel may 
also use a mobile application to conduct queries, which permits use of a phone scanning feature. 
ICE is working to update its R ules of Behavior and  contractual terms to reflect these changes. 
All other LPR functionality identified in prior ICE PIAs remains the same (e.g., audit trails,  
reporting, alert lists). Enhanced LPR functionality is described in more detail below.  
Geographic Query   
The expanded geographic query, which is only available for use in furtherance of HSI 
criminal investigations, includes use of multiple geographic points that form a polygon or 
polygonal coordinates. A map interface within the vendor’s LPR database allows the user to draw 
polygonal shapes to define a region of interest. The geographic query allows authorized HSI 
users to look at a specific location and see which license plates were scanned during the specified 
 
ACCESS TO AND USE OF LICENSE PLATE READER DATA AND TECHNOLOGY (2017), which discusses ICE’s adherence 
to the First Amendment protections of the right to peaceably assemble, available at 
https://icegov.sharepoint.com/sites/insight/mgt/igp/privacy/Documents/Implementation -Guidance.pdf.  
6 See U.S. DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE, GUIDANCE FOR FEDERAL LAW ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES REGARDING THE USE 
OF RACE, ETHNICITY, GENDER, NATIONAL ORIGIN, RELIGION, SEXUAL ORIENTATION, OR GENDER IDENTITY (2014) 
available at https://www.justice.gov/sites/default/files/ag/pages/attachments/2014/12/08/use-of-race-policy.pdf. 
7 Only certain ICE personnel will be permitted to use the enhanced LPR functionality. In this PIA’s Use and Access 
sections, ICE describes how the vendor can limit access based on the use r’s need to know, thereby ensuring that 
only authorized personnel can conduct a geographic or partial plate query. 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 5 
 
time period. For example, if HSI knows that a vehicle involved in human trafficking is traveling 
between two cities on a given date, authorized personnel can draw a polygon between these  
locations and the vendor LPR database would return any vehicles traveling within this area during 
the specified timeframe. If authorized HSI personnel know additional information about the 
vehicle(s) of interest (such as make, model, color, or year), they can also include that information 
within the query to further refine the query results. Inputting these additional query terms will 
return fewer results, and HSI  will not have to sort through vehicles that are unrelated to the 
investigation. HSI may also use this feature to repeatedly query an area suspected of criminal 
activity to determine if the sam e vehicle(s) have traveled within this area in the  specified time 
frame.  
Because HSI does not need a license plate number to run this query, the query results 
could contain multiple license plates. When the LPR database sends results back to HSI,  
personnel can filter the results in multiple ways (e.g., make, model, year). The geographic query 
is extremely useful in situations where HSI may know certain aspects of the subject vehicle (e.g., 
make, model, color, year, or state of registration), but does not k now the license plate number. 
By using the geographic query feature, HSI can cull the results to identify the vehicle(s) of 
interest. As documented in prior LPR PIAs, HSI does not collect or retain any information on 
vehicles that are unrelated to an HSI investigation. The vendor maintains records that allow HSI 
to conduct audits of its activity, such as query terms, user ID, and records responsive to queries. 
Geographic queries also include a “common plate” query feature. A common plate query 
allows author ized HSI personnel to analyze multiple locations to see if any license plate(s)  
appeared in the selected locations. This query produces a report containing a list of plates that 
were scanned in at least two of the selected locations. This query feature all ows authorized HSI 
personnel to filter the query consistent with the aforementioned query filter ability (e.g., make, 
model, year). Further, HSI personnel also must enter a specific, limited timeframe for the query, 
and the vendor’s data service will return vehicle information for any plates present in the selected 
locations during the specified time period. HSI will not take enforcement action based solely on 
information provided from the vendor’s LPR data service. LPR data will be supplemented with 
other investigative information before enforcement action is taken. 
HSI may use the common plate feature when investigating a drug trafficking case. For 
example, if HSI investigators know that certain locations are routinely involved in criminal  
activity, then they can draw polygons around those areas to receive a list of license plates scanned 
during the specified date and time. If the query results indicate that a certain vehicle was present 
in several of those locations, then HSI may use that information as a lead to take further action. 
Any plate scanned in at least two of the selected locations will be returned to HSI. HSI personnel 
can further filter data provided from the query to focus on any vehicles that match the description 
of the vehicle(s) of interest (e.g., 2017 red Toyota Camry). HSI will need to further investigate the 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 6 
 
results of the data before taking any law enforcement action, but the common plate query feature 
provides HSI with an additional tool to further their criminal investigations. 
Geographic queries can also reveal “pattern of vehicle movement” data. “Pattern of  
vehicle movement” analysis is a method of focused surveillance specifically used for 
documenting or understanding a vehicle’s movements. This form of observation is generally done 
without the consent of the vehicle occupant(s). The aggregation of multiple points via a polygonal 
geographic query yields a “pattern of vehicle movement” or proximity to a crime scene. A pattern 
of vehicle movement may be more sensitive information than one fixed GPS coordinate.  
A “pattern of vehicle movement” can provide a sweeping account of location information 
and may disclose sensitive information about the vehicle based on the vehicle’s physical  
movements. For example, these queries can reveal exce ssive information outside the scope of an 
investigation, and could potentially indicate otherwise lawful activity, such as traveling to a  
doctor’s appointment, school, or participating in a First Amendment -protected activity. HSI will 
not collect or retain any information on vehicles that are not relevant to an ongoing investigation, 
consistent with HSI’s law enforcement authorities. HSI personnel are trained to focus on vehicles 
suspected to be involved in criminal activity. ICE analyzes the “pattern of ve hicle movement" 
privacy risk, below, in the Characterization of the Information section. 
Partial Plate Query 
A partial plate query is used when the full license plate character sequence is inaccessible 
or unclear. Through a partial plate query, authorized ICE personnel could obtain matches from the 
vendor’s LPR database even with incomplete license plate character strings. The full license plate 
number might be inaccessible to ICE personnel for several reasons (e.g., snow on plate, angle of 
camera, lack of light). A partial plate query can be particularly successful when combined with a 
“Make-Model” query.8  
To conduct a partial plate query, a user enters a partial plate as well as all other required 
information to perform a query.9 An example partial plate query term is “AB*123” if a user does 
not know that “ABC123” is the full license plate number. Query results will return all vehicles 
matching the characters entered by the user. If a user knows only one or two of a given plate’s 
characters, the database may return a high volume of results. In turn, a user would be required to 
 
8 A “Make-Model” query is used when only a vehicle’s manufacturer, or “make,” and model are known —a vehicle 
year and or vehicle color may also be associated with a make and model. A “Make-Model” query is also available 
when the user conducts partial plate queries. This additional query information further narrows down the number of 
query results.  
9 To query the commercial LPR data service, authorized ICE personnel must provide: a license plate number, the 
state of the license plate, a reason code, and the timeframe that ICE wants to query ( e.g., previous 90 days), specific 
case reference, subject identifying information, query for self or on be half of another person-and this other person’s 
name. For subject identifying information, ICE personnel enter identifying information about the subject into this 
field (e.g., name and A-number), as well as any other helpful information. 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 7 
 
spend significant time reviewing the returns. It therefore benefits users to enter as many license 
plate characters as possible. Authorized personnel further narrow the s cope of their queries by 
including as much information as possible (e.g., make, model, year, color) in their queries. 
Mobile Application Functionality with Phone Scan Feature  
In 2017, ICE explored the use of a mobile application to conduct license plate q ueries. 
Since that time, ICE has not used this mobile application but instead has used a mobile -friendly 
version of the vendor’s LPR database through a mobile device’s web browser. In this PIA update, 
ICE is outlining its plan to use the vendor’s mobile application with a new phone scanning feature 
(“Plate Scan Feature”) in furtherance of its law enforcement mission. 
Phone scanning entails using a phone’s camera to scan license plates in a continuous  
automated manner (rather than “snapping” license plate photo images one at a time). ICE personnel 
with the vendor’s mobile application can use this function to scan license plates whether they are 
inside or outside their patrol cars. Prior to this phone scanning feature, agents would have to hand 
write the licen se plate numbers for every vehicle at the scene. This would be particularly  
cumbersome where multiple vehicles were assembled in close proximity, such as larger parking 
lots.  
This mobile application allows the user to scan vehicle plates. The scanned plat es may be 
stored both on the ICE user’s mobile device and uploaded to the vendor’s law enforcement cloud 
server. The vendor software is able to match license plates scanned by ICE personnel with license 
plates in the vendor’s database. 10 The vendor’s mobile application enables license plate scanning 
on iOS and Android devices. 
The mobile application has a mobile alert feature. Using this feature, the vendor can alert 
ICE in near real-time if one of the license plates uploaded through the mobile application matches 
a plate on an associated “alert list.” This mobile feature can improve efficiency by providing law 
enforcement officers in the field with real-time LPR alerts when a scanned vehicle matches a plate 
on an alert list.  
For example, HSI agents may con duct an investigation at an area with several vehicles 
assembled in close proximity, such as a parking lot. Agents on the scene can use the mobile 
scanning feature to scan all the plates that they encounter. The agents upload these plates to the 
vendor’s database using the mobile application. Through the mobile alert feature, agents will be 
alerted to any plates: (i) that the agents previously put on their internal alert list; or (ii) that other 
law enforcement personnel identified on shared alert lists. If the query results contain vehicles that 
 
10 This vendor database could contain both commercial LPR data and state and local alert/hot list LPR data. Any 
positive match results are tagged “ICE” and would not be retained in the vendor database. Further, ICE does not 
share any query terms, query results, or uploaded images with any state or local law enforcement agencies or other 
entities with access to the vendor’s database. 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 8 
 
are not relevant to an ongoing investigation, then authorized HSI personnel will disregard the 
results and will not enter this information into any agency investigative records. 
The mobile alert feature can enhance officer safety by alerting ICE personnel to a vehicle 
of interest associated with an occupant/owner who ICE has identified as having made threats 
against the agency or public. 
The enhanced LPR functionality produces data -driven, real-time actionable intelligence. 
Beyond locating vehicles of interest, authorized ICE personnel can use the intelligence to more 
efficiently: apprehend offenders, prevent and solve crimes, improve both public and officer safety, 
and increase situational awareness. Enhanced LPR functionality enables criminal investigators 
with only limited information to identify suspect vehicles to further an investigation or solve a 
crime. Enhanced LPR data assists ICE in developing and validating law enforcement leads. These 
leads are based on the location of vehicles that are associated with ICE administrative and criminal 
investigations. LPR data can be combined with other investigative methods and techniques and 
used by authorized ICE personnel to develop critical evidence for prosecuti ons in furtherance of 
investigative and enforcement mission.  
 
Privacy Impact Analysis 
Authorities and Other Requirements 
Legal Authorities 
ICE is authorized to collect commercial LPR data in furtherance of its investigative and 
enforcement missions under numerous authorities, including various criminal and civil provisions 
in Titles 8, 18, 19, 21, and 31 of the United States Code (U.S.C.), and associated DHS  
regulations.11 For purposes of this PIA update, the only enhanced functionality that  will be used 
in furtherance of ICE ERO’s immigration enforcement authorities is the partial plate query.  
System of Records Notices (SORN) 
LPR records obtained in support of ERO’s immigration enforcement mission are covered 
by the DHS/ICE-011 Criminal Arrest Records and Immigration Enforcement Records (CARIER) 
SORN.12 This SORN notifies the public that data is obtained from commercial and public sources, 
among other sources, and prescribes permissible routine uses for the information. 
LPR records obtained in support of an HSI criminal investigation are covered by the 
 
11 8 U.S.C. Title 8—ALIENS AND NATIONALITY; 18 U.S.C. Title 18—CRIMES AND CRIMINAL 
PROCEDURE; 19 U.S. Code Title 19—CUSTOMS DUTIES; 21 U.S.C. Title 21—FOOD AND DRUGS; 31 
U.S.C. Title 31—MONEY AND FINANCE.  
12 See DHS/ICE-011 Criminal Arrest Records and Immigration Enforcement Records (CARIER), 81 Fed. Reg. 
72080, (October 19, 2016), available at https://www.dhs.gov/system-records-notices-sorns. 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 9 
 
DHS/ICE-009 External Investigations SORN.13 This SORN notifies the public that data is obtained 
from commercial data aggregators, among other sources, and prescribes permissible  routine uses 
for the information. 
Data Retention 
ERO Hard Copy Records: ERO users can print relevant information from the commercial 
LPR data service and store hard copies in the appropriate target folder. These hard copy records 
are maintained for three years from the end of the calendar year in which the record was created,14 
but longer retention is authorized if there is a justified business need (e.g., ongoing investigation, 
pending litigation).15  
ERO Electronic Records: ERO users also enter relevant information into the narrative field 
in the Enforcement Alien Removal Module (EARM), a subset of the Enforcement Integrated  
Database (EID).16 Records in EID are maintained for 75 years.17  
HSI Hard Copy Records : HSI stores hard copy records inside the relevant investigative 
case file. These files are retained onsite for 10 years, after which they are transferred to the Federal 
Records Center, and destroyed when they are 20 years old. 18 Longer retention may be authorized 
if there is a justified business need or if records are identified as permanent (e.g., because they 
have historical significance). 
HSI Electronic Records: HSI enters LPR-related information into the Investigative Case 
Management (ICM) system.19 ICM creates, manages, and maintains HSI Investigative Case 
 
13 See DHS/ICE-009 External Investigations, 75 Fed. Reg. 404 (January 5, 2010), available at 
https://www.dhs.gov/system-records-notices-sorns. 
14 See NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION, REQUEST FOR RECORDS DISPOSITION AUTHORITY, 
RECORDS SCHEDULE NUMBER DAA-0567-2015-0016-0001, U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, FUGITIVE 
OPERATIONS SCHEDULE, available at https://www.archives.gov/files/records-
mgmt/rcs/schedules/departments/department-of-homeland-security/rg-0567/daa-0567-2015-0016_sf115.pdf. 
15 ERO proposed the three-year retention period because records maintained in target folders are compilations  of 
records from other sources (e.g., A-Files, public databases, online queries) that can be recreated as needed and are 
also frequently updated. There is an operational need for the target folders to have the most recent information from 
these sources to support the process of locating and arresting the target noncitizen. 
16 See U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, U.S. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT, PRIVACY 
IMPACT ASSESSMENT FOR THE ENFORCEMENT INTEGRATED DATABASE (EID), DHS/ICE/PIA-015 (2010 and 
subsequent updates), available at https://www.dhs.gov/privacy-documents-ice. 
17 See NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION, REQUEST FOR RECORDS DISPOSITION AUTHORITY, 
RECORDS SCHEDULE NUMBER DAA-0563-2013-0001-0006, U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, 
BIOMETRICS RECORD FILE, available at https://www.archives.gov/files/records-
mgmt/rcs/schedules/departments/department-of-homeland-security/rg-0563/daa-0563-2013-0001_sf115.pdf. 
18 See NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION, REQUEST FOR RECORDS DISPOSITION AUTHORITY, 
RECORDS SCHEDULE NUMBER N1-036-86-001 (Item 161/3, INV-7b) , U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, 
INVESTIGATIVE CASE FILE SCHEDULE , available at https://www.archives.gov/files/records-
mgmt/rcs/schedules/departments/department-of-the-treasury/rg-0036/n1-036-86-001_sf115.pdf. 
19 See U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, U.S. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT, PRIVACY 
IMPACT ASSESSMENT FOR THE ICE INVESTIGATIVE CASE MANAGEMENT (ICM), DHS/ICE/PIA–045 (2016), 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 10 
 
Files. The records in this system are retained in accordance with the Legacy Investigative Case 
File Records Schedule (N1-36-86-1-161.3/Inv.7b).20 Investigative case files are temporary with a 
retention of 20 years for all HSI case category investigative cases with the exception of the case 
category 03 Neutrality Investigative Case File.21  
Vendor Retention of ICE Data: ICE does not contribute data to the commercial LPR 
database and the vendor is not permitted to use any of ICE’s query data, including photographs, 
for its own purposes. ICE query data is not retained by the vendor except to maintain audit logs 
for use by ICE.  
Characterization of the Information 
In the 2017 PIA and in ICE’s contract with the vendor, ICE was required to enter a full 
license plate number to perform a query. If the license plate number matched a license plate in the 
LPR data service, then the vendor sent corresponding information back to ICE. This PIA update 
outlines the removal of the requirement of inputting a full license plate number and discusses how 
authorized ICE personnel can query the database using either a partial plate or a geographic query.  
These new query capabilities alter the way that ICE collects, uses, and shares information. 
First, the geographic query changes how authorized personnel can query the vendor’s LPR data 
service. Instead of entering a full license plate number, HSI personnel can instead draw polygons 
around the map to look for vehicles in a particular region of interest. A query using a full license 
plate number would return information pertaining to a specific vehicle. However, the geographic 
query will likely return multiple results, requiring ICE personnel to use other investigative methods 
to identify the subject vehicle(s). 
Second, the partial plate query permits ICE personnel to query for a subject vehicle when 
they don’t know the full license plate number. For example, a user may enter “XY*7*9” for license 
plate “XYZ789.” The vendor LPR database would return any plates matching th e pattern  
submitted by ICE. Submitting a partial plate number likely results in multiple vehicles being  
returned. ICE personnel  are trained to enter as many characters as possible to increase the 
likelihood that the query results are narrowly tailored to t he vehicle(s) of interest. In addition, a 
partial plate query also requires entering all other information necessary for a full plate query (e.g., 
state of registration, reason code). 
Third, the mobile application scanning feature permits ICE personnel to scan an increased 
number of assembled (e.g., parked) license plates in a short time period (see “Mobile Phone 
 
available at https://www.dhs.gov/privacy-documents-ice. 
20 See Legacy Investigative Case File Schedule: https://www.archives.gov/files/records-
mgmt/rcs/schedules/departments/department-of-the-treasury/rg-0036/n1-036-86-001_sf115.pdf, page 44. 
21 See Neutrality Records Schedule: https://www.archives.gov/files/records-
mgmt/rcs/schedules/departments/department-of-the-treasury/rg-0036/n1-036-86-001_sf115.pdf, page 58. 
 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 11 
 
Scanning Overcollection” subsection below for more details). Until this capability was 
implemented, ICE personnel had to either write down each plate number by hand or take individual 
photographs of relevant license plates before running a query. This could be a time -consuming 
process requiring significant resources. Now, if ICE personnel see several cars parked in an area 
near a crime scene or an area of suspected criminality within ICE’s legal authorities, they can use 
the mobile scanning feature to scan multiple plates at once. The versatile nature of mobile devices 
offers law enforcement personnel access to information not accessible by LPR camer as mounted 
on poles or vehicles (e.g., a handheld mobile device can fit in hard to reach places which a vehicle 
mounted camera could not access). At this time, the mobile feature will be used in support of 
criminal investigations, not for immigration enfor cement matters. Should this change, ICE will 
update this PIA before any changes occur.  
Since the 2017 PIA, there have been no changes to: (i) categories of individuals for whom 
the data is collected; (ii) why the information is collected; (iii) informatio n sources; (iv) how the 
information is checked for accuracy; and (v) the legal authorities under which ICE can collect the 
information.  
Privacy Risk: There is a risk that enhanced LPR technology query results might contain 
inaccurate information, leading ICE to rely on inaccurate data in furtherance of its law enforcement 
mission. 
Mitigation: The risk is partially mitigated. To ensure accuracy of information, the  
response to a query must include at include at least two photos of all matches. Since 2017, the 
vendor uses high definition (HD) cameras that provide higher quality images. This results in  
increased accuracy of license plate matches. As mentioned in the 2017 PIA, the vendor has  
provided a mechanism for ICE to easily notify ve ndor personnel from within the query result if 
the results returned contain errors. Finally, ICE does not take enforcement action against any 
individual based solely on the information obtained from the vendor’s LPR service. Authorized 
ICE personnel receive training to verify all accessed data is relevant to ongoing investigative and 
enforcement activities.  
The vendor reports 100% accuracy of matches between queries and indexed results.  
However, the following factors could result in errors during the indexing process: the angle of the 
LPR camera; impacted snow/debris on a plate; the scan of a bent and/or damaged plate. 
Privacy Risk: There is a risk that the system collects more information than is necessary for 
the purposes of the program. The following new enhancements can contribute to overcollection: (i) 
extraneous “pattern of vehicle movement” not relevant to an ongoing investigation; (ii) the potential 
for identification of individual humans (in close proximity to or associated with vehicles) whose  
images are captured through LPR camera technology; 22 and (iii) the increased access to information 
 
22 LPR images can display the environment surrounding a vehicle, which may include other drivers and passengers. 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 12 
 
afforded by the mobile phone scanning application. 
Mitigation: The risk is partially mitigated. To determine whether information obtained 
from the commercial LPR data service is relevant to an investigation or enforcement matter, ICE 
personnel review all query results returned upon querying the database. If ICE personnel 
determine that certain records are not relevant, those records are not printed, saved, or stored. For 
example, some LPR images may display the environment surrounding a vehicle, which may 
include other drivers and passengers. Authorized ICE users will only consider information 
pertaining to the vehicle (e.g., make, model, license plate number) and  use that information to 
identify associated individuals in furtherance of its law enforcement efforts. ICE personnel must 
crop images containing individuals before the images are added to a case file unless the images 
pertain to individuals who have a known or suspected association to a criminal investigation.23  
The enhanced LPR functionality queries (e.g., geographic query) can return information 
on multiple vehicles that do not pertain to an HSI investigation. HSI trains its authorized agents 
to only take follow -up action on relevant vehicle information in furtherance of an ongoing 
investigation. HSI personnel are prohibited from collecting records without a specific, 
articulatable target (e.g., individual or vehicle) or targeted criminal activity within the purview of 
HSI’s authorities. As discussed below, HSI agents must complete training to ensure that they use 
the LPR service appropriately. As authorized law enforcement personnel, HSI agents are also 
trained to only consider and record relevant, accurate information. HSI agents are further trained 
to include as much information as possible when querying the database to narrow the query 
results scope (e.g., make, model, color, year). When fewer query results are returned, HSI 
personnel are more likely to identify the vehicle(s) of interest to promote efficiency.  
Pattern of Vehicle Movement Overcollection  
A “pattern of vehicle movement” can reveal extrinsic information not relevant to an  
investigation. To mitigate the return of extraneous “patter n of vehicle movement” data, HSI 
administrators monitor data usage for any unusual query patterns or suspicious use of “pattern of 
vehicle movement” data, which may be accessed in violation of HSI’s Rules of Behavior for using 
the technology. The vendor pr ovides audit logs quarterly, or upon request, to HSI for further 
monitoring of HSI’s use of the enhanced LPR functionalities.  
 
An LPR image may capture an individual whom ICE believes may be of interest to an investigation. For example, in 
a child exploitation case, ICE could run facial recognition technology on that individual (e.g., subject or victim) in 
accordance with prescribed policies/procedures. For more information, see previous version of the LPR PIA, supra 
note 3.  
23 Depending on the resolution of the specific LPR device, it may be possible to identify the occupants of the 
vehicle. However, this vendor service does not deploy facial recognition or any other technology to support 
automated photo identification. 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 13 
 
As noted herein, HSI agents are trained to only consider information relevant to a potential 
or ongoing investigation. If informa tion returned to HSI reveals “pattern of vehicle movement” 
that does not further HSI’s law enforcement mission, then HSI will not collect, use, or retain such 
information. HSI must corroborate any “pattern of vehicle movement” data prior to taking 
enforcement action against a vehicle’s occupants or associated individuals.  
 In using the geographic query function, HSI recognizes that the LPR data service may also 
return information on a large number of vehicles, the majority of which are not pertinent to a 
criminal investigation. To guard against this risk, HSI criminal investigators and analysts receive 
training to narrowly tailor their queries to the specific geographic area of interest.  If HSI knows 
that a certain crime is occurring at a specified location  (e.g., stash house), it would not be useful 
to draw a polygon around an area larger than the block where the house is located. Doing so would 
cause HSI personnel to spend significant time sifting through records for vehicles that have no 
relevance to a cr iminal investigation. If HSI personnel try to query an extremely large area, the 
vendor’s database sends a warning message indicating that an excess number of records will be 
returned. 
Overcollection of Information on Individuals Incidental to Queries to LPR Data Service 
Authorized ICE personnel can query the vendor’s LPR data service in one of three ways: 
(i) conducting a geographic query (HSI personnel only); (ii) entering a full or partial license plate 
number; or (iii) uploading photographs of subject license plates.  
If ICE personnel upload photographs of license plates to the vendor’s LPR database, the 
submitted images could display the environment surrounding a vehicle, which may include drivers 
and passengers. If the enhanced LPR functionalities collect collateral images of individuals in the 
background, in addition to vehicles, the same general overcollection risk mitigations apply as  
outlined in the 2017 PIA update. ICE personnel can also crop the images so that only the vehicle 
and corresponding license plate are captured. ICE personnel must adhere to the previously cited 
ICE LPR policy guidance which states that ICE will not engage in the overcollection of LPR data. 
ICE will not record any information or images of such individuals if they are not r elevant to an 
investigation. Further, ICE trains its personnel to avoid drawing excessively large polygons 24 
yielding numerous query results. The vendor’s database will also provide a warning message to 
users if ICE’s queries would return an excessively la rge number of results. 25 ICE’s standard 
 
24 The LPR database allows for areas as small as three-square meters to be queried. However, ICE personnel are 
trained to query areas that return the most applicable and relevant results, drawing polygons not too large and not 
too small so as to narrow the focus as much as possible on the relevant amount of data to review applicable to the 
query. The previously referenced Rules of Behavior and training further help to mitigate this risk.  
25 The vendor’s database will provide a warning message for any queries for which 10,000 or more results will be 
returned. This could be the result of an overly broad geographic query or a query with a timeframe which would 
return excessive results. If ICE receives this message, the query can still be run, but the database will  produce the 
5,000 most recent results. Users must confirm they would like to run a search that yields such voluminous results.  

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 14 
 
practice is to narrow a query by including as much information as possible (e.g., make, model, 
year, color). As noted herein, ICE users must complete, and stay current on, training to ensure that 
they use the LPR ser vice appropriately; users are trained to only consider and record relevant, 
accurate information in furtherance of its law enforcement investigations. 
Mobile Phone Scanning Overcollection 
Mobile phone versatility allows authorized ICE law enforcement personnel to access LPR 
data that pole/vehicular mounted cameras cannot reach. Thus, mobile phones have increased  
information access, which increases the risk of overcollection.  
To mitigate this risk, mobile phone access is strictly controlled. Any data transmitted via a 
mobile phone is subject to auditing by ICE administrators to ensure adherence to the program 
requirements. These audits are conducted at least quarterly, or more frequently upon request by 
ICE. If a user is suspected of misusing the database or  performing queries unrelated to ICE’s 
authorities, ICE can audit that user’s activities and implement disciplinary measures, as necessary. 
Additionally, scanning large areas is counter to ICE’s mission and any scanned data deemed not 
relevant to an ongoin g investigation must be deleted. Further, authorized ICE personnel must: 
complete, and stay current on, training on the appropriate use of LPR data; agree to the Rules of 
Behavior at the login splash screen; adhere to the ICE sensitive locations policy; and abide by the 
terms and conditions of ICE’s contract with the vendor. 
Uses of the Information 
 The underlying uses of information outlined in the 2017 PIA remain the same—supporting 
ICE criminal and administrative law enforcement investigations. The new enhancements provide 
ICE the industry standard in actionable intelligence to improve public safet y and assist in ICE’s 
law enforcement mission.  
Under the conditions outlined in both the 2017 PIA and the ICE Rules of Behavior, ICE 
users had to query the LPR database using a full license plate number. Any results returned to ICE 
would only pertain to t hat vehicle. Now, authorized users have multiple query options, some of 
which may return information on several vehicles (i.e., geographic queries and partial plate  
queries). In addition, mobile devices are a new point of collection and conduit for yielding potential 
matches. 
Privacy Risk: There is increased risk that authorized ICE users may use information from 
the commercial LPR data service for purposes beyond what is described in this PIA. Specifically, 
there is a risk that ICE users will use the LPR query service to receive information on vehicles that 
are not relevant to an ongoing law enforcement investigation. 
Mitigation: The risk is partially mitigated. Several of the associated risk mitigations  
remain unchanged from the 2017 LPR PIA (e.g., tr aining, terms and conditions, splash screen, 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 15 
 
user-level audit logs, discipline for unauthorized use). These mitigation strategies also apply to 
the new query capabilities described in this PIA update.  
ICE has also taken measures to mitigate the risk that ICE could persistently track vehicles 
that are unrelated to a law enforcement investigation. The following controls ensure that ICE only 
pursues vehicles that are of law enforcement interest.  
For example, ICE personnel must abide by the policies outlined in the ICE Code of Ethics, 
ICE agency-wide LPR guidance,26 the Rules of Behavior appearing as a splash screen upon login, 
and all privacy controls outlined in ICE’s original 2015 License Plate Reader PIA and the 2017 
PIA update. 
Further, HSI’s use of data derived from LPR technology must be associated with an  
ongoing investigation, target of investigation, and/or targeted law enforcement activity. When HSI 
personnel query by geographic location, they must enter both a “Reason Code” (e.g., criminal 
investigation) and complete a free -text field outlining the justification for the query, which may 
include the applicable case number. System administrators and/or HSI agency managers audit and 
monitor HSI LPR use for impermissible tracking data (see Auditing and A ccountability section, 
below). This oversight helps to ensure that LPR data is only used for purposes outlined in this PIA 
(and previously-published ICE LPR PIAs), the ICE agency-wide LPR guidance, the splash screen 
that appears at each log-on event, and consistent with ICE’s contract with the vendor.  
ICE will not take enforcement action based solely on information provided from the  
vendor’s LPR data service. LPR data will be supplemented with other investigative information 
before enforcement action is ta ken. Using the geographic query, consistent surveillance enables 
HSI law enforcement personnel to focus on a likely vehicle of interest. Rather than drawing large 
polygons on the map which potentially yield extraneous query results, HSI trains its users to enter 
as much information as available about the vehicle in order to produce focused and narrowly -
tailored query results. HSI will never run geographic queries solely based on demographic 
characteristics (e.g., Little Italy or retirement community). Rather, HSI criminal investigators must 
establish reasonable suspicion that the queried area is associated/linked to an ongoing investigation 
before conducting a geographic query. The geographic query is particularly helpful in combatting 
smuggling and traffick ing operations, which typically involve vehicles transporting humans or 
contraband over a wide area. 
Finally, ICE has implemented the following controls to mitigate the risk of misuse. System 
administrators or agency/account managers ensure that those individuals without log-in credentials 
do not engage in unauthorized use. Toward this end, administrators restrict unauthorized personnel 
from running certain queries, such as geographic or partial plate queries. ICE personnel can be 
 
26 See supra note 5. 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 16 
 
disciplined if they use the LPR service for unauthorized purposes. This action includes revocation 
of LPR access, risk of employment termination, and possible criminal prosecution.  
Notice  
ICE has not identified any new risks associated with notice. While photographs of license 
plates using the mobile scanning feature could incidentally include individuals not associated with 
an ICE investigation (collateral image), this risk was already ass essed in the 2017 PIA when ICE 
personnel uploaded photos one at a time.  
ICE does not record images which are not relevant to an investigation. If ICE determines 
a vehicle is relevant to an investigation, ICE may take exploratory steps. It may not be  
operationally feasible to offer notice to individuals captured in collateral images if ICE determines 
that such individual is relevant to an ongoing investigation (i.e., a subject/victim of a crime within 
ICE’s legal purview). If ICE makes this determination, I CE would take necessary fact -finding 
steps such as running a facial recognition technology query on the individual.27  
Data Retention by the Project 
With this update, the LPR record retention policy is unchanged for both hard copy and 
electronic records. In addition, there is no change to how long or for what purposes the vendor 
may retain any information provided by ICE. The vendor only retains this information for audit 
purposes; no other entity with access to the vendor’s LPR database can access or use information 
pertaining to an ICE query. Therefore, ICE has not identified any new risks regarding data  
retention.  
 
27 See U.S. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY, IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT, PRIVACY IMPACT 
ASSESSMENT FOR THE ICE USE OF FACIAL RECOGNITION SERVICES, DHS/ICE/PIA-054 (2020), 
https://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/privacy-pia-ice-frs-054-may2020.pdf. 
 
 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 17 
 
Information Sharing 
Existing LPR data sharing does not change as a result of this expanded functionality. This 
update does not pose any new pr ivacy risks related to information sharing. ICE continues to  
develop MOUs with information sharing partners if it intends to share any LPR data outside the 
Department, and has executed one information sharing agreement since the publication of the prior 
PIA.  
Redress 
This PIA update does not change an individual’s rights of access, redress, and correction. 
Auditing and Accountability 
This PIA update does not change the ICE LPR audit process. ICE has responsibility for 
auditing users (e.g., which users shoul d, or should not, have LPR use and access service). These 
audits also help ensure that HSI users do not violate the sensitive locations policy when conducting 
queries (specifically, the geographic query). Audits conducted on users can detect sensitive  
location queries inconsistent with mission needs, thereby ensuring that ICE adheres to this policy. 
Contractually, the vendor audits LPR use and monitors audit logs, which it provides to ICE  
officials on a quarterly basis (or upon request).28 
This PIA discusses new query features available to a subset of authorized ICE personnel.  
Accordingly, ICE has taken the following steps to ensure access controls are implemented.  
First, the vendor will create a separate log-in point for users authorized to use the vendor’s 
enhanced LPR functionality. ICE personnel who have not been granted this access may only query 
the database using a full license plate number. The approved list of personnel is subject to change 
based on the individual’s roles and responsibilities.  
Second, system administrators, or agency/account managers, 29 must ensure that those  
without log -in credentials do not engage in unauthorized use. Toward this end, admi nistrators 
restrict unauthorized personnel from running certain queries, such as partial plate or geographic 
queries. Further, ICE personnel will receive disciplinary action if they use the LPR service for 
unauthorized purposes.  
ICE system administrators can audit user activity on the vendor’s web interface or mobile 
application. Auditing data includes the identity of the user initiating the query or the person on 
whose behalf the query is initiated, if different. The query interface requires a user to ide ntify 
 
28 While results returned in response to the query are not retained in the audit logs, results would generally be able to 
be recreated by replicating the query using the logged query data. 
29 The ICE system administrator(s) manages the agency’s LPR service user group, including creating user accounts, 
managing user profiles and permissions, managing alert lists or hot lists, establishing agency data sharing 
relationships, setting agency data retention policies, auditing users, and ensuring compliance with agency policy.  

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 18 
 
whether the user is querying the LPR service for him or herself or for another ICE user. While ICE 
personnel will most commonly query the LPR service for themselves, there are a few scenarios 
when they perform a query on behalf of a colleague. This c ould occur when an HSI agent in the 
field is in the middle of conducting an interview of an investigation subject and cannot 
simultaneously query the LPR database. Unable to conduct the query him/herself, the agent may 
contact an HSI criminal analyst with access to the LPR database to conduct the query on the agent’s 
behalf. Additionally, if an agent in the field does not have a mobile device on his/her person to run 
the query, the agent may call a colleague who otherwise has access to run the query on the agent’s 
behalf. If the user is making the query on behalf of another individual, the query interface will 
require the user to enter the name of the other individual. This helps ensure that only authorized 
ICE personnel can use the enhanced LPR functionality. Users may be audited for suspicious query 
patterns (including excessively large geographic areas) associated with the geographic query 
function. This audit function is in line with the ICE sensitive locations policy. 30 ICE created this 
policy to govern enforcement actions at, or focused on, policy -defined sensitive locations. The 
audit function reveals suspicious query trends involving queries disproportionately directed at 
these sensitive locations. Through this oversight, ICE personnel who violate this  policy may be 
disciplined for any misuse of the database.  
Training 
With this PIA update, ICE identifies a privacy risk arising with the introduction of  
enhanced LPR functionality. As ICE recognizes the privacy risks associated with enhanced LPR 
functionality, the provided training needs to be updated and expanded to address these new 
features.  
Privacy Risk: There is a risk that ICE personnel may use LPR information outside the 
scope of this PIA update, as they do not receive sufficient privacy and civil rights/civil liberties 
training regarding the enhanced LPR functionalities.  
Mitigation: This risk is partially mitigated. First, the LPR vendor provides training on 
the use of the tool itself, which includes data confidentiality training and specifically outlines 
consequences for abusing or misusing information from the LPR database. ICE is working with 
the LPR vendor to ensure that contractual training terms accurately reflect the enhanced LPR 
functionality. In addition, all ICE personnel mus t complete annual DHS Privacy training. LPR 
service users must complete, and be current on, this training to ensure they use the service 
appropriately and understand the privacy safeguards.  
Second, all ICE personnel must agree to the Rules of Behavior, ap pearing as a splash 
screen when the user logs into the vendor’s LPR database. ICE is in the process of updating the 
 
30 See U.S. IMMIGRATION AND CUSTOMS ENFORCEMENT POLICY 10029.2, ENFORCEMENT ACTIONS AT OR FOCUSED 
ON SENSITIVE LOCATIONS (2011), available at https://www.ice.gov/doclib/ero-outreach/pdf/10029.2-policy.pdf. 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 19 
 
content of this splash screen to incorporate rules pertaining to the enhanced LPR functionalities 
described in this PIA update. In addition,  ICE has created agency -wide guidance issued to all 
personnel who access LPR data. This guidance outlines the appropriate use of LPR technology, 
including how personnel use the vendor’s database. The guidance specifically guards against the 
overcollection of information; reiterates ICE’s policy on enforcement actions at sensitive 
locations; explains the prohibition on using LPR information about an individual based solely on 
special protections (e.g., race, religion, sexual orientation), and confirms that any ICE personnel 
using the vendor’s database must first receive appropriate training.  
Third, ICE supervisors are responsible for overseeing their employees’ use of the vendor’s 
LPR database. Supervisors monitor LPR use and would step in to halt any misuse  that occurs. 
Serious cases of misuse would be reported to OPR, which could lead to discipline for 
unauthorized use.  
Further, ICE is developing future privacy, civil rights, and civil liberties training which 
leverages its expertise in conjunction with vendor training. The combination of these two training 
perspectives further address training requirements to mitigate this risk. ICE will tailor this training 
to include privacy concerns of the enhanced LPR functionalities described in this PIA update, 
such as proper use of the geographic search function.  
Access 
The LPR enhancements discussed in this PIA pose new risks pertaining to access. ICE 
has weighed these potential risks against the benefits that they provide and has incorporated  
mitigation strategies  accordingly. By accessing these new query functions, authorized ICE  
personnel increase their chances of generating leads. This access, in the form of increased  
actionable intelligence, improves public safety in furtherance of ICE’s law enforcement mission.  
The vendor uses technical controls and mechanisms within its suite of products that  
facilitate privacy controls on the data and restrict access to only those whom the agency grants 
access. The vendor’s technical controls include features such as data en cryption, password  
complexity requirements, password change rules, and other network protections.  
Any ICE personnel who access the system without authorization or who use the database 
in an inappropriate manner will receive disciplinary action, which may include revoking access 
to the database, suspension, or termination of employment. 
Privacy Risk: There is a risk that the commercial LPR database does not protect against 
unauthorized use, access, or loss of data.  
 Mitigation: This risk is partially mitigated. Consistent with the 2017 PIA, ICE limits the 
number of users who can access the commercial LPR database. ICE ensures that only those who 
need LPR data for their mission -related purposes can query the database. ICE supervisors are 

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 20 
 
responsible for ensuring that their users have a need to know for the data in the LPR database in 
order to be granted access. Further, ICE agency managers work with the vendor to update the list 
of approved personnel to ensure that only authorized ICE personnel can access the database. In 
the context of the geographic query, this access is limited to HSI Criminal Investi gators, Task 
Force Officers, Criminal Analysts, and Investigative Assistants who have all been fully vetted 
with appropriate clearances to conduct or support criminal investigations. 
ICE works with the vendor to ensure that only authorized users have acces s to enhanced 
LPR functionality. ICE has responsibility for auditing users (e.g., which users should or should 
not have access to the product). Contractually, the vendor audits product use and monitors audit 
logs; the vendor sends quarterly audit reports to the ICE Contracting Officer and the Contracting 
Officer Representative.31 ICE Privacy will continue to work with these offices, supervisors, and 
the vendor to ensure audits are carried out effectively. 
ICE also ensures that authorized personnel only have  access to data for which they are 
permitted to view. For example, LPR data returned will be limited to matches within the time 
period specified in the query. Authorized ICE personnel will create queries in LPR databases with 
specific temporal limitations; the system does not permit a query that lacks a specified timeframe. 
Further, HSI personnel are prohibited from drawing outsized polygons yielding an unwieldy  
volume of query results. Rather, ICE’s standard practice requires a properly narrowed query scope 
by including as much information as possible in the query. 
Privacy Risk: There is a risk that unauthorized ICE personnel can access the enhanced 
LPR functionality. 
Mitigation: This risk is partially mitigated. ICE’s agency -wide LPR guidance, Rules of 
Behavior (e.g., splash screens), and required DHS training (such as privacy training and integrity 
awareness training) provide policies for how personnel can use the technology. All ICE 
authorized personnel must complete training on the appropriate use of the service and LPR data 
before accessing the commercial LPR database. Additionally, all ICE personnel must agree to the 
Rules of Behavior,  appearing as a splash screen when the user logs into the vendor’s LPR 
database. 
 
 
 
 
 
31 The vendor provides auditing of all user activity for proper governance and oversight. All user queries and reports 
are clearly visible to agency managers for reporting purposes. The audit logs also include the user who performed 
the query, and the query criteria used to query the vendor’s reporting network platform.  

 Privacy Impact Assessment 
DHS/ICE/PIA-0039(b) LPR 
Page 21 
 
ICE will incorporate multiple ac count management controls relating to the way ICE  
personnel access the database to further mitigate the risk of unauthorized access. Consistent with 
this PIA’s Auditing and Accountability section, the vendor can restrict access to the  geographic 
query function to only HSI authorized personnel.  
 
Contact Official 
Albert Giangregorio 
Acting Division Chief, Transnational Organized Crime (TOC)  
Office of Homeland Security Investigations (HSI)  
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement  
U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
(802) 872-6222 
Responsible Official 
Jordan Holz 
Privacy Officer 
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement  
U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
Approval Signature 
 
Original, signed copy on file with the DHS Privacy Office. 
________________________________  
Lynn Parker Dupree 
Chief Privacy Officer 
U.S. Department of Homeland Security 
(202) 343-1717 
 
 
 
  
 
 

