 
Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
for the 
Acquisition and Use of License Plate Reader (LPR) 
Data from a Commercial Service 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) 
December 27, 2017 
Contact Points 
Matthew T. Albence 
Executive Associate Director 
Enforcement and Removal Operations 
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
(202) 732-3000 
 
Derek N. Benner 
Acting Executive Associate Director 
Homeland Security Investigations 
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
(202) 732-3300 
 
Reviewing Official 
Philip S. Kaplan 
Chief Privacy Officer 
Department of Homeland Security 
(202) 343-1717 

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 1 
 
Abstract 
The Department of Homeland Security , U.S. Immigration and Customs 
Enforcement (ICE) has procured query -based access to a vendor -owned commercial 
License Plate Reader (LPR) data service that stores recorded vehicle license plate data from 
cameras equipped with license plate reader technology. ICE uses  LPR data from this 
service in support of its criminal and administrative  law enforcement missions. In March 
2015, ICE published a Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA) announcing ICE’s intention to 
procure access to a commercial LPR database and describing the controls ICE would put 
in place to ensure the agency complies with privacy a nd civil liberties requirements when 
using the service.  This PIA Update explains ICE’s operational use of the service it has 
procured and describes the privacy and civil liberties protections that have been 
implemented by the agency and the vendor. 
Overview 
In March 2015, ICE published the DHS/ICE/PIA–039 “Acquisition and Use of 
License Plate Reader Data from a Commercial Service” PIA,1 announcing its intention to 
procure access to a vendor -owned commercial LPR data service to be used by the ICE 
Offices of Enforcement and Removal Operations (ERO) and Homeland Security 
Investigations (HSI). That PIA described the protective provisions that would be included 
in any executed contract to ensure privacy and civil liberties requirements would be 
implemented. ICE has now entered into a contract with a vendor to provide ERO and HSI 
with access to a commercial LPR database operated by a commercial partner . Under the 
terms of the contract, the primary vendor has clear accountability and oversight 
responsibility to ensure the commercial partner  adheres to the requirements  discussed 
throughout this PIA Update. (Hereinafter, the vendor and commercial partner are referred 
to collectively as “vendor”). 
LPR data assists ICE in developing and validating criminal and administrative law 
enforcement leads based on the location of vehicles that are associated with ICE criminal 
and administrative investigations .2 ICE does not take any enforcement action against an 
individual based solely on the results of a query. Rather, ICE uses information from the 
LPR database to develop and corroborate other investigative information, including 
information from government systems. The commercial LPR database stores vehicle 
                                                           
1 See DHS/ICE/PIA-039 Acquisition and Use of License Plate Reader Data from a Commercial Service, 
available at www.dhs.gov/privacy. 
2 The principles and practices ICE adheres to when accessing and using LPR data are described in agency 
guidance titled, “Privacy Guidance: Agency Access to and Use of License Plate Reader  Data and 
Technology”, issued December 2017, from the ICE Office of Information Governance & Privacy.  

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 2 
 
license plate numbers that are recorded from cameras equipped with LPR technology. The 
commercial database receives data from a variety of governmental and private sources, 
including: 
• Toll road cameras; 
• Parking lot cameras; 
• Vehicle repossession companies; and 
• Law enforcement agencies.3 
The vendor compiles LPR records  from at least 25  states and 24 of the top 30 most 
populous metropolitan statistical areas 4 within the United States, to the extent that 
collection of LPR data is authorized by law in those jurisdictions. ICE does not contribute 
data to the commerci al LPR database.  Further, under the terms of the Contract, t he 
commercial LPR vendor is not permitted to use any of ICE’s query data, including 
photographs, for its own purposes or share information from ICE queries with other 
customers, business parties, or any other individual or entity without express permission 
from ICE. 
Logging into the Database 
ICE users (ERO officers, HSI agents, and certain support staff) 5 access the 
commercial LPR database via a web-based system . Before gaining access to the LPR 
service, ICE users must obtain a unique username and password and choose security 
challenge questions to assist in password recovery. Upon accessing the service, ICE users 
log in with their credentials  and must agree to rules of behavior presented to them on a 
splash screen before they are permitted to query the database.  ICE users must enter their 
username and password each time they access the LPR service, whether accessing via a 
computer or the mobile application. 
Querying the Database 
All ICE queries of the commercial LPR database are based on known license plate 
numbers. The data returned is  limited to matches of that license plate number within a 
                                                           
3 For a discussion of the information that the LPR database stores, see DHS/ICE/PIA-039 Acquisition and 
Use of License Plate Reader Data from a Commercial Service, available at www.dhs.gov/privacy. 
4 A metropolitan statistical area is defined in the contract as: “a geographical region with a relatively high 
population density at its core and close economic ties throughout the area as defined by the Office of 
Management and Budget (OMB) and used by the Census Bureau and other federal government agencies for 
statistical purposes.” 
5 Support staff includes Law Enforcement Specialists, Enforcement and Removal Assistants, Mission 
Support Specialists, and Management and Program Analysts. 

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 3 
 
defined time period. For ERO queries, all LPR queries are limited to a maximum 5-year 
timeframe, which is the approximate average length of time for vehicle ownership .6 For 
HSI criminal investigations , the maximum timeframe will depend upon the statute of 
limitations for the particular crime  being investigated. The service will not process  any 
queries that do not specify  a timeframe. The query interface also includes a mandatory 
drop-down field for ICE to select a “reason code”  for the query from a pre -populated list 
(e.g., criminal investigation). 
To query the commercial LPR data service, authorized ICE users must provide a 
license plate number, the state of the license plate, a reason code, and the time frame that 
ICE wants to query ( e.g., previous 90 days). ICE users must also complete a mandatory 
free-text field to reference the specific case for which the query was performed.  This 
provides information for the user and, if applicable, an auditor, to determine what led to 
the particular query. ICE users enter identifying information about the subject into this field 
(e.g., name and alien number), as well as any other helpful information. Finally, users must 
indicate whether they are entering data for themselves or for another individual. Because 
not all HSI agents or ERO officers have access to the commercial LPR data service, those 
without access may request that an ICE user query the database on their behalf.  If so, the 
ICE user must enter the name of the agent or officer for whom the query is being entered.  
An example of a query may be as follows: 
• License plate number: ABC123; 
• State: Pennsylvania; 
• Reason code: Criminal investigation; 
• Querying for self or other person: Self; 
• Free-text: Subject name John Doe, case number 12345678; and 
• Time frame: Previous 60 days. 
Based on the above query, t he commercial LPR service searches its records for license 
plate related information (i.e., photographs and location information) on the queried license 
plate number over the past 60 days. No other law enforcement agency or commercial entity 
will have access to ICE query information. Furthermore, the vendor only retains ICE query 
information (including any PII) to maintain the audit log. 
The commercial LPR service’s mobile application  also allows ICE users to query 
the database using photographs to auto-populate the license plate and state of registration  
                                                           
6 See https://www.kbb.com/car-news/all-the-latest/average-length-of-us-vehicle-ownership-hit-an-all_time-
high/2000007854/. 

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 4 
 
fields. When ICE users conducting an investigation in the field encounter a vehicle for 
which they need to query the LPR database, they  can take a picture of the license plate 
from within the mobile app lication and submit the photograph as part of the query. The 
commercial LPR service then uses Optical Character Recognition technology to translate  
the license plate number and the state of the license plate , and auto-populates these two 
fields within the query interface. ICE users still must manually enter the other required data 
elements (e.g., reason code, timeframe) to complete the query. Pursuant to the terms of the 
Contract, the vendor only retains these pictures for audit purposes, and is not permitted to 
include them in its database for search purposes. Additionally, data within the mobile 
application is automatically deleted from the user’s phone after 60 days if not manually 
deleted sooner. 
LPR Service Search Results 
The search results contain two photographs of the vehicle, the nearest address of  
where the LPR captured the license plate, Global Positioning System ( GPS) coordinates, 
web-based interactive maps, the nearest intersection, date and time t he license plate w as 
captured, and source of the record. The vendor reports 100% accuracy on query matches 
to indexed data. For example, a search for plate XYZ -1234 will always return records 
tagged as XYZ-1234. There is a possibility that environmental or logistical factor s (e.g., 
snow on plates, angle of camera) may cause an error in tagging. However, the requirement 
for two photographs in each search result serves to make any errors more readily apparent 
to users. Further, ICE personnel are alerted to these possibilities in training and have the 
ability to notify the vendor of any mistakes they discover during searching. Finally, ICE 
personnel are trained to verify any data they receive during the course of investigations 
before relying on it for enforcement purposes. 
Alert lists 
The Contract for the commercial LPR service requires the vendor to provide an 
“alert list” feature that enables users to save license plate numbers to be automatically 
queried against new records as they are loaded into the vendor’s LPR data service.7 Users 
may add a license plate to an alert list in one of two ways: 1) A user may batch upload up 
to 2,500 license plates to a single alert list 8 and 2) a user may assign an alert to a single 
license plate query , essentially creating a single plate aler t list. For batch uploads, users 
                                                           
7 The commercial LPR data service refers to license plates that have been added to alert list s as “Hot 
Plates.” 
8 The system is being customized to limit ICE users to a maximum of 2,500 to comport with ICE policy.  
This upper limit supports operational efficiency by enabling one user to upload a large number of plates at 
the onset of accessing the database and/or related to different investigations at one time, and also supports 
larger operations, such as those run through ICE-led task forces. Alert list data is retained in audit logs, 
which are available to ICE personnel charged with ensuring proper use of the vendor database.  

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 5 
 
must include, at minimum, the license plate number, state of registration, reason code, and 
free-text field, as in single-query searches. 
Users may search an alert list for a particular license plate and share alert list 
notifications between other ICE users involved in a case. When ICE users add a license 
plate to an alert list with multiple license plates or create a single plate alert list, they choose 
who will be notified of any positive matches ( i.e., single user, group of users, or agency -
wide), with the default option being single user notification. When a new record in the 
database matches a license plate on an alert list, the commercial LPR data service sends a 
near real-time notification via email to the user originating the alert list and to any ICE user 
that has been included by the original user in the notification group. 
The LPR data service also automatically flags license plates on ICE users’ alert lists 
for de-confliction. The service will send an email alert to an ICE user who attempts to add 
a license plate to an alert list  if the license plate number, state of registration, and reason 
code are an identical match to an entry on another ICE user’s alert list. For example, if 
Officer Smith wants to add license plate number XYZ-1234, registered in Wisconsin, with 
“criminal investigation” as a reason code to his alert list, and Agent Jones has an alert list  
that contains an exact match for this search, the LPR service will send an email alerting  
Officer Smith that Agent Jones already has this plate on his alert list. 9 This ensures that 
users are appropriately coordinating on cases and not duplicating efforts. 
Each license plate number on an alert list is valid for one year unless the user 
removes the query before its expiration. The service prompts users two weeks prior to the 
expiration of a license plate number and require s the user to affirmatively indicate that 
there continues to be an operational need to keep the particular license entry on the alert 
list active, or be given the option to delete the license plate from the alert list. The service 
grants the user one additional week after expiration to renew the entry in the alert list. If 
the user does not renew, the service removes the license plate number from the alert list. 
All alert list activity is audited to capture: user na me, date and time of the query, 
reason code, and user note associated with the query, as well as license plate number entry, 
deletion, renewal, and expiration from the alert list. Once the entry has either expired or an 
ICE user has removed it from the alert list, the data is no longer retained, except as part of 
the audit log.10 
                                                           
9 There could be a valid reason why a license plate appears on more than one alert list. For example, Officer 
Smith may query the plate for immigration enforcement reasons, while Agent Jones is researching the plate 
for a criminal investigation. 
10 The audit logs referenced in the contract with the vendor are considered “records” under the Federal 
Records Act. The vendor is required to maintain these records on behalf of ICE throughout the life of the 

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 6 
 
Web Access and Mobile Application 
Under the terms of the Contract, ICE is able to access the LPR service via the 
vendor’s web interface  and via an iOS-compatible mobile application. Both the web 
interface and mobile application incorporate  appropriate technical, administrative, and 
physical security controls to protect the confidentiality, integrity, and availability of the 
shared data.11 
The mobile application allows authorized ICE users in the field to: 
• Query the LPR data service by entering the license plate number  and state of 
registration (or photograph, as described above) , reason code, and other required 
data elements; 
• Add returned positive matches into the alert list;  
• Have quick access and recall of any queries and alert lists associated with the user 
or designated user group; and 
• Share alert list notifications between authorized ICE users involved in a case. 
The vendor’s application deletes any saved data on the mobile device after 60 days, if not 
already deleted manually by the user. Additionally, the mobile application conforms to all 
other privacy and performance requirements outlined in the Contract. 
Individual Rights and Liberties 
In the 2015 LPR PIA, ICE included a discussion of civil liberties concerns raised 
by the public, such as racial profiling, use of the technology at sensitive locations, and 
verifying the accuracy of LPR data before taking enforcement action. 12 ICE continues to 
value and abide by the relevant policies described in the 2015 PIA, as well as the December 
2014 U.S. Department of Jus tice policy guidance entitled, “ Guidance for Fe deral Law 
Enforcement Agencies R egarding the Use of Race, Ethnicity, Gender, National Origin, 
Religion, Sexual Orientation, or Gender Identity.”13 
                                                           
contract or for a maximum of seven (7) years, whichever is sooner. At the end of the contract, the vendor 
will extract, transfer, and load these records in a readable format to another storage medium or locati on 
specified by ICE. This transfer of records will occur no later than 30 days after the contract ends.  After 
successful transfer, the vendor will ensure that all copies of the records (including any still -active alert list 
data) are securely deleted from all networks and storage media under its control, to include those belonging 
to its subcontractors, if applicable. 
11 The vendor is certified ISO 9001:2008, the internationally recognized standard for Quality Management 
Systems. 
12 For a full discussion of the individual rights and liberties issues raised in the original LPR PIA, see pp. 4, 
7-9 in DHS/ICE/PIA-039 Acquisition and Use of License Plate Reader Data from a Commercial Service, 
available at www.dhs.gov/privacy. 
13 See https://www.justice.gov/sites/default/files/ag/pages/attachments/2014/12/08/use-of-race-policy.pdf. 

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 7 
 
ICE does not use the LPR data service to locate or track individuals who have no 
connection to ICE  investigatory or enforcement activities . As discussed previously, ICE 
users may only submit queries using known license plate numbers to find information about 
vehicles connected to its law enforcement activities. If ICE  determines that a queried 
license plate number does not relate to someone  of interest in an ICE investigation, ICE 
personnel do not record, save, or print the search results for that vehicle. Furthermore, if a 
license plate on an alert list is determined to have no relation to a current ICE investigation, 
the ICE user who owns the alert list is required by policy to remove the plate. 
Finally, ICE does not take enforcement action against any individual based solely 
on the information obtained from the vendor’s LPR service. ICE personnel check the 
information against other investigative information, including information from 
government systems, before taking any action against the individual. It is critical for ICE 
users to compile the most ac curate information in conducting a law enforcement 
investigation or enforcement activity, and in preparation for a criminal or administrative 
proceeding. Therefore it is necessary, as described below, to corroborate the LPR data prior 
to taking any action. 
Reason for the PIA Update 
This PIA is being updated for two reasons : (1) to  inform the public that ICE has 
procured access to a commercial LPR data service; and (2) to describe the privacy and civil 
liberties protections in ICE’s contract with the vendor. 
Privacy Impact Analysis 
Authorities and Other Requirements 
Legal Authorities 
ICE is permitted to collect commercial LPR data in furtherance of its investigative 
and enforcement missions under numerous authorities, including various criminal and civil 
provisions in Titles 8, 18, 19, 21, and 31 of the United States Code (USC), and associated 
DHS regulations. 
System of Records Notices (SORNs) 
LPR records protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 that are obtained in support of 
ERO’s immigration enforcement mission  are covered by the DHS/ICE -011 Criminal 
Arrest Records and Immigration Enforcement Records  (CARIER) SORN.14 This SORN 
                                                           
14 DHS/ICE-011 Criminal Arrest Records and Immigration Enforcement Records (CARIER) , 81 FR 72080 
(Oct. 19, 2016). 

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 8 
 
notifies the public that data is obtained from commercial and public sources, among other 
sources, and prescribes permissible routine uses for the information.  
LPR records protected by the Privacy Act of 1974 that are obtained in support of 
an HSI criminal investigation are covered by the DHS/ICE -009 External Investigations 
SORN.15 The SORN notifies the public that data is obtained from commercial data 
aggregators, among other sources , and prescribes permissible routine uses for the 
information. 
Data Retention 
ERO Hard Copy Records : ERO users can print relevant information from the 
commercial LPR data service and store hard copy files in the appropriate target folder.  
These hard copy files are maintained for three years from the time the record was created, 
but longer retention is authorized if there is a justified business need ( e.g., ongoing 
investigation, pending litigation).16 The cutoff point is the end of the calendar year in which 
the record was created, and the records are destroyed three years after the cutoff date.17 
ERO Elect ronic Records : ERO users also enter relevant information into the 
narrative field in the Enforcement Alien Removal Module (EARM) , a subset of the 
Enforcement Integrated Database (EID) .18 Records in EARM  are maintained for 75 
years.19 
HSI Hard Copy Records : HSI stores hard copy records inside the rele vant 
investigative case file. These files are retained onsite for 10 years, after which they are 
transferred to the Federal Records Center, and destroyed when they are 20 years old. 20 
Longer retention may be authorized if there is a justified business need or if records are 
identified as permanent (e.g., because they have historical significance). 
HSI Electronic Records : HSI enters LPR -related information into the 
Investigative Case Management (ICM) system. 21 ICM records are in the process of being 
scheduled. Until there is a records  schedule approved by National Archives and Records 
Administration (NARA), ICE will treat these records as permanent. 
                                                           
15 DHS/ICE-009 External Investigations, 75 FR 404 (Jan. 5, 2010). 
16 ERO proposed the three-year retention period because records maintained in target folders are 
compilations of records from other sources (e.g., Alien Files, public databases, online searches) that can be 
recreated as needed, and are also frequently updated. As information from these sources is updated, there is 
an operational need for the target folders to have the most recent information to support the process of 
locating and arresting the target alien. 
17 NARA Records Control Schedule DAA-0567-2015-0016-0001. 
18 See DHS/ICE/PIA-015(b) Enforcement Integrated Database, available at www.dhs.gov/privacy. 
19 NARA Records Control Schedule DAA-0563-2013-0001-0006. 
20 NARA Records Control Schedule N1-036-86-001 (Item 161/3, INV-7b). 
21 See DHS/ICE/PIA-045 ICE Investigative Case Management (ICM), available at www.dhs.gov/privacy. 

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 9 
 
Paperwork Reduction Act 
Not applicable. 
Characterization of the Information 
With the acquisition of LPR data access from a commercial service, authorized ICE 
users can query the service by entering a known license plate number  believed to be 
associated with a person of interest to ICE . If the license plate number entered by ICE 
matches a license plate in the LPR data service, a report  is generated containing two 
photographs, allowing ICE to verify the license plate number and make/model of the 
vehicle. The vendor report also includes a map of where the vehicle was located, a satellite 
image, GPS coordinates for the closest address, nearest intersection of the vehicle’s 
location, date and time the license plate was captured, and the source of the record  (e.g., 
Delaware toll road camera) . Any information contained in these reports can be manually 
entered into E ARM, ICM, or a hard copy file – in other words, incorporated into the 
appropriate subject or case file with other relevant information. ICE does not take any 
action on an individual based solely on the results from an LPR query. 
All LPR information that ICE uses in its investigative and enforcement operations 
is obtained from the commercial vendor described in this PIA. The vendor obtains the LPR 
data through the sources described above.22 
The vendor reports 100% accuracy of matches between queries and indexed results. 
However, the following factors could result in errors during the indexing process: 
• The angle of the LPR camera; 
• Impacted snow on a plate; 
• The scan of a bent and/or damaged plate; 
• Plates that are partially obstructed;  
• Heavy snow or rain; or  
• Other items outside of the vendor’s control. 
To ensure ICE personnel are able to determine whether query results are relevant, the terms 
of the Contract require that the response to a query must include at least two photographs 
on all hits, and must meet the following requirements: 
                                                           
22 This includes toll road cameras, parking lot cameras, vehicle repossession companies, and law 
enforcement agencies. 

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 10 
 
• Photos must be of sufficient quality to allow the user to visually confirm the license 
plate and vehicle make/model in the photo are the same as what is repr esented in 
the vendor system. 
• Query results must seamlessly integrate with web -based interactive maps. The 
printable report must  show two different map views, the coordinates for nearest 
address and the nearest intersection. 
• The vendor must provide a notification mechanism in the event ICE users identify 
photographs that do not match the data in their system  (i.e., license plate numbers 
or make/model mismatches). 
Privacy Risk : There is a risk that the LPR commercial database could contain 
inaccurate information. 
Mitigation: As discussed above, the vendor , which has provided similar services 
on a continual basis to other law enforcement agencies for more than five years, reports 
100% accuracy or matches between queries and indexed results. For example, a search for 
plate XYZ -1234 will always return records tagged XYZ -1234. The vendor has also 
provided a mechanism for ICE to easily notify vendor personnel from within the query 
result if the results returned contain errors. 23 Finally, ICE does not take any enforcement 
action against an individual based solely on the commercial LPR data. ICE agents and 
officers are trained to verify all data and assess its relevance to their investigative and 
enforcement activities in light of other available data. 
Privacy Risk: There is a risk that ICE collects more information than is necessary 
to fulfill its mission. 
Mitigation: To determine whether information obtained from the commercial LPR 
data service is relevant to an investigation or enforcement matter, ICE users review all 
search results returned upon querying the database.  If ICE users determine that certain 
records are not relevant, those records are not printed, saved, or stored. For example, some 
LPR images may display the environment surrounding a vehicle, which may include other 
drivers and passengers. ICE will not record any information or images of such individuals 
if they are not relevant to an investigation. As discussed below, ICE users must complete 
training to ensure that they use the LPR service  appropriately, and are trained as law 
enforcement personnel to only consider and record relevant, accurate information. 
 
                                                           
23 For example, the LPR data service indicates that it found a match for New York license plat e number 
ABC123 on a Toyota Camry. However, the photographs returned to ICE show a Nissan Altima with a 
different license plate. 

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 11 
 
Uses of the Information 
ICE uses information from the commercial vendor to further its investigative and 
enforcement missions. ICE ERO  and HSI use the information to identify, arrest, and 
remove aliens from the United States who pose a risk to public safety or national security 
(e.g., aliens with a criminal record, fugitive aliens, illegal re -entrants). HSI also uses the 
information to support its criminal investigations into national security threats, illegal arms 
exports, financial crimes, commercial fraud, human trafficking, narcotics smuggling, child 
pornography or exploitation, and immigration fraud. LPR data helps  ICE develop viable 
leads based on the location of vehicles that are associated with ICE criminal and 
administrative law enforcement investigations. 
ICE does not use the LPR data service to conduct electronic searches to discover or 
locate a predictive pattern or anomaly (i.e., for purposes of data mining), and no other DHS 
components have assigned roles, responsibilities, or access to the vendor’s LPR data 
service. 
Privacy Risk : There is a risk that individuals may use information from the 
commercial LPR data service for purposes beyond what is described in this PIA. 
Mitigation: All ICE authorized users must complete training on the appropriate 
use of the service and LPR data before accessing the commercial LPR database. 
Additionally, all ICE employees are required to take mandatory training for data security, 
privacy, information assurance, and records management  on an annual basis . In addition, 
the vendor provides training to ICE personnel on the use of the LPR data service. 
Further, each time that ICE authorized use rs log into the LPR data service, they 
must agree to ICE terms and conditions set forth in a  splash screen before performing a 
query. The splash screen describes the agency’s permissi ble uses of the system and data,  
and requires the user to affirmatively consent to these rules by clicking an online button 
before proceeding. The following rules apply to the splash screen: 
• The splash screen appears at each logon event; 
• The text on the splash screen is available to the user via a hyperlink within the main 
system interface (including the mobile application interface); and 
• ICE users must affirm their understanding of the rules of behavior before they are 
able to complete the login process and commence a query. 
The rules of behavior as presented to ICE users are as follows (paraphrased): 

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 12 
 
• ICE users must perform all queries using a license plate number  and must provide 
certain information within the query to reference the specific criminal or 
administrative investigation for which the query was performed; 
• ICE users must corroborate the information obtained from the commercial LPR 
database before taking enforcement action; 
• ICE users are permitted to add license plates to alert lists only when they pertain to 
an ongoing criminal or administrative investigation; 
• ICE users must remove license plates from alert lists when they no longer relate to 
a criminal or administrative investigation; and 
• ICE users who violate the rules of behavior will be subject to penalties in 
accordance with ICE policy. 
Finally, the vendor maintains immutable user-level audit logs on behalf of ICE that are 
made available to ICE Agency Managers, supervisors, or the ICE Office of Professional 
Responsibility (OPR) upon request. Agency Managers are federal employees responsible 
for: 
• Adding, deleting, and managing users; 
• Sending registration keys to new users; 
• Maintaining user access request forms (electronic or hard copy); and 
• Running usage reports within their Area of Responsibility (AOR).24 
If ICE determines that personnel have used the system in an unauthorized manner, the user 
may be disciplined in accordance with ICE policy . Depending on the offense, such 
discipline could include revoking access to the commercial LPR database, a written 
reprimand, suspension, or termination of employment with ICE. 
Privacy Risk: There is a risk that the commercial LPR database does not protect 
against unauthorized use, access, or loss of data. 
Mitigation: ICE limits the number of users who are able to access  the LPR data 
service and ensures that only those who need LPR data for their mission- related purposes 
are able to query the database. An Agency Manager must approve access before a user 
account is provisioned. Access to the LPR data service requires each user receive unique 
credentials for the web interface and mobile application.  If users forget  their password, 
they must correctly answer a security question before getting a temporary password to 
                                                           
24 Each AOR (e.g., New York City, Chicago) has a separate Agency Manager. 

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 13 
 
access the LPR data service. This helps to ensure that only authorized users are able to 
query the database. 
Additionally, all authorized users must complete the trainings discussed previously 
before being granted access to the service. If the vendor discovers that an individual has 
used the service in an unauthori zed manner, it is required to notify ICE as soon as 
practicable after the discovery . ICE may also request user -level audit logs if there is an 
indicator of unauthorized activity. Any ICE personnel who have accessed the system 
without authorization or who used the database in an inappropriate manner may be 
disciplined, which may include revoking access to the database, suspension, or termination 
of employment. 
Further, the vendor is required to report the suspected loss or compromise of ICE 
data ( e.g., ICE user identities, audit trail data, ICE alert list data) including s ensitive 
personally identifiable information (PII) 25 in a timely manner and cooperate with ICE’s 
inquiry into the incident and efforts to remediate any harm, including any harm to ICE 
users. Specifically, the vendor must report any suspected loss or compromise of ICE data 
to the ICE Contracting Officer’s Representative (COR) or Contracting Officer within one 
hour of the initial discovery, and must provide a written report to ICE within 24 hours. 
Finally, the vendor is required to terminate user accounts within 24 business hours 
of receiving a request from ICE. 
Notice 
ICE previously provided notice of its intention to use a commercial LPR service in 
the 2015 LPR PIA, and now in this PIA Update provides a more detailed description to the 
public about the LPR data to which it has access using  the vendor  data service. 
Additionally, ICE SORNs provide public notice of broad categories of information that 
ICE collects in connection with mission-related activities. 
Data Retention by the project 
ICE users conducting queries may retain only the results they de termine have 
relevance to their investigative and enforcement activities in the appropriate ICE 
investigative case file and/or target folder for the length of time prescribed by the applicable 
records schedule for that file. Once LPR data is incorporated into the appropriate ICE case 
file, it and other case file data may be queried and analyzed in other systems established to 
                                                           
25 Sensitive PII is Personally Identifiable Information, which if lost, compromised, or disclosed without 
authorization, could result in substantial harm, embarrassment, inconvenience, or unfairness to an 
individual. See the DHS Handbook for Safeguarding Sensitive PII, at: 
https://www.dhs.gov/sites/default/files/publications/dhs%20policy%20directive%20047-01-
007%20handbook%20for%20safeguarding%20sensitive%20PII%2012-4-2017.pdf. 

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 14 
 
perform analysis in order to develop leads, such as locating targets and linking cases using 
location information. These capabilities are des cribed in the EID and ICM PIAs , cited to 
earlier in this document . Also, the vendor does not retain any ICE query information, 
except to maintain the audit log. 
ERO Retention 
If the LPR data service displays results that are useful to ERO in its immigration 
enforcement mission, ERO users can print this information and store hard copy files in the 
appropriate target folder. These hard copy records are maintained for three years from the 
time the recor d was created, at which point they are destroyed, in accordance with the 
applicable records schedule approved by the NARA . Longer retention may be authorized 
if there is a justifiable business need. If ERO users enter any of this information into 
EARM, those electronic records are retained in EID for 75 years. 
HSI Retention 
LPR records stored in HSI hard copy case files are retained onsite for 10 years, after 
which they are transferred to the Federal Records Center, and destroyed when they are 20 
years old. Longer retention may be authorized if there is a justified business need or if 
records are identified as permanent ( e.g., because they have historical significance).  LPR 
records stored in ICM are in the process of being scheduled. Until there is a records  
schedule approved by NARA, ICE will treat these records as permanent.  
This update does not pose any new privacy risks related to data retention. 
Information Sharing 
ICE may share i nformation obtained from the commercial LPR data  service in a 
manner consistent with the Privacy Act of 1974 and DHS policy. Specifically, ICE may 
share this information with other entities such as the Federal Bureau of Investigation, U.S. 
Marshals Service, and state  and local police departments in furtherance of criminal  law 
enforcement investigations conducted as part of a multi -agency task force in which those 
entities are participating. ICE may also share with other law enforcement agencies under 
the routine uses described in the applicable SORNs listed herein. The Contract explicitly 
prohibits the vendor from sharing any information provided by ICE for its own purposes , 
or to share the information with other customers, business partners, or any other entity. 
This update does not pose any new privacy risks related to information sharing. 
Redress 
The right to request amendment of records under the Privacy Act of 1974 (5 U.S.C. 
§552a) is limited to United States citizens and lawful permanent residents. Executive Order 

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 15 
 
No. 13,768 Enhancing Public Safety in the Interior of the United States (January 25, 2017) 
states: “Agencies shall, to the extent consistent with applicable law, ensure that their 
privacy policies exclude persons who are not United States citizens or lawful permanent 
residents from the protections of the Privacy  Act regarding personally identifiable 
information.26 This Executive Order precludes DHS from extending such rights by policy. 
Additionally, the Judicial Redress Act of 2015 (5 U.S.C. §552a note), which amended the 
Privacy Act, provides citizens of certain countries with access, amendment, and other 
redress rights under the Privacy Act in certain limited situations.27 
As a result of Executive Order 13,768, DHS’s “Mixed Systems Policy” 28 was 
rescinded by the DHS Privacy Office in its Privacy Policy Guidance Memorandum (April 
25, 2017).29 This changes the ability of aliens to access and correct their record maintained 
in a system of records at DHS, such as EARM or ICM. Individuals not covered by the 
Privacy Act or the Judicial Redress Act may request access to their records by filing a 
Freedom of Information Act (FOIA) request. 
The DHS Privacy Policy Guidance Memorandum makes clear that DHS has an 
obligation as a data steward, separate and apart from the Privacy Act, to maintain accurate, 
relevant, timely, and complete records. Collecting, maintaining, using, and disseminating 
accurate information helps DHS to efficiently meet its operational goals, prevent waste, 
and improve outcomes. Failure to maintain accurate records serves to undermine efficient 
decision making by DHS personnel, and can create the risk of errors made by DHS and its 
personnel. To that end, the Privacy Division in the ICE Office of Information Governance 
& Privacy accepts records amendment requests from individuals not covered by the 
Privacy Act of 1974. 
                                                           
26 The full text of Executive Order 13,768 can be found here: https://www.whitehouse.gov/the-press-
office/2017/01/25/presidential-executive-order-enhancing-public-safety-interior-united. 
27 The foreign countries and regional organizations covered by the Judicial Redress Act, as of F ebruary 1, 
2017, include the European Union (EU) and most of its Member States. For the full list of foreign countries 
and regional organizations covered by the Judicial Redress Act, please visit the U.S. Department of Justice 
website https://www.justice.gov/opcl/judicial-redress-act-2015. 
28 The DHS’ “Mixed Systems Policy” extended most Privacy Act protections to visitors and aliens whose 
information was collected, used, maintained, or disseminated in connection with a mixed system of records 
(i.e., contains PII on U.S. citizens and lawful permanent residents, and non-U.S. citizens and non-legal 
permanent residents). Memorandum Number 2007-1, DHS Policy Regarding Collection, Use, Retention, 
and Dissemination of Information on Non-U.S. Persons. 
29 DHS Memorandum 2017-01: DHS Privacy Policy Regarding Collection, Use, Retention, and 
Dissemination of Personally Identifiable Information (April 25, 2017) (DHS Privacy Policy), available at 
https://www.dhs.gov/publication/dhs-privacy-policy-guidance-memorandum-2017-01. As the DHS Privacy 
Policy notes, Executive Order 13768, does not affect statutory or regulatory privacy protections that may be 
afforded to aliens, such as confidentiality rights for asylees and refugees, and individuals protected under 8 
U.S.C. §1367. These laws operate independently of the Privacy Act to restrict federal agencies’ ability to 
share certain information about visitors and aliens, regardless of a person’s immigration status.  

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 16 
 
Privacy Risk : There is a risk that individuals will be unable to participate 
meaningfully in the use of their data as maintained in this system, or determine whether 
the system maintains records about them. 
Mitigation: Because data obtained from the LPR data service is maintained for a 
law enforcement purpose, individuals’ rights to be notified of the existence or non-
existence of data about them, and to direct how that data may be used by ICE, are limited. 
Notification to affec ted individuals could compromise the existence of ongoing law 
enforcement activities and alert individuals to previously unknown investigations of 
criminal or otherwise illegal activity. This could cause individuals to alter their behavior 
in such a way th at certain investigative tools, such as wiretaps or surveillance, will no 
longer be useful. Permitting individuals to direct the agency’s use of their information 
would similarly interfere with the intended law enforcement use of the system. 
Nevertheless, the publication of this PIA Update and associated SORNs provides general 
notice about ICE’s collection of information, and how that information is used. 
Auditing and Accountability 
Auditing of ICE’s use of the commercial LPR database is done in two ways: (1) the 
vendor maintaining comprehensive audit trails; and ( 2) audits performed by the Agency 
manager, an ICE supervisor, or OPR. 
The Audit Process 
Any activity on the vendor’s web interface or mobile application is fully auditable 
by ICE and cannot be disabled by the user.  This includes all alert list activity. Under the 
terms of the Contract, the vendor must provide user-level audit reports to ICE upon request 
that include the following data: 
• Identity of the user initiating the query or the person on w hose behalf the query is 
initiated, if different;  
• Exact query entered, to include license plate number, date limitations, geographic 
limitations (if applicable), reason code, and any other data selected or input by the 
user; and 
• Date and time of query.30 
The vendor provides  the audit log in electronic form via secure transmission to ICE 
promptly upon request. The format of the audit log allows for ICE to retrieve user activity 
                                                           
30 While results returned in response to the query are not retained in the audit logs, results would ge nerally 
be able to be recreated by replicating the search using the logged query data. 

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 17 
 
by user name (or ID), query entered ( e.g., particular license plate), and date/ti me. ICE is 
able to export all audit reports in electronic PDF or Excel. 
The vendor does not use audit trail data for any purpose other than those s pecified 
and authorized in the C ontract. Furthermore, the vendor provide s quarterly, or upon 
request, statistics based on positive hits against the number of requested searches and hit 
list. These reports can be run for any time frame. The vendor maintains  the audit logs for 
seven years. The vendor does not share the audit logs with any outside entities, including 
other law enforcement agencies. At the end of the Contract, the vendor will export/transfer 
any alert list data in machine-readable format to a storage medium or location specified by 
ICE within 30 days of the Contract’ s termination. Under the terms of the Contract, after 
successful transfer of these records, the vendor is required to delete all ICE data (including 
any audit log and still-active alert list data) from all networks and storage media under its 
control. 
Training 
Before being granted access to the vendor’s LPR data service, authorized ICE users 
must complete training on the appropriate use of the service and LPR data . This 
supplements existing mandatory training required of all ICE personnel on data securi ty, 
data privacy, information assurance, and records management. 
The vendor provides initial training to authorized ICE users to orient personnel to 
the use of their system, including the “Help Desk” support related to the use, access, and 
maintenance of t he system. The vendor also provide s system training and “Esca lation 
Procedures” for the Agency Manager, and will include procedures for resetting passwords. 
Finally, the vendor provides  unlimited technical support to each user. Additionally, ICE 
requires all of its personnel who are permitted to access the commercial LPR data service  
to be trained on the nondiscriminatory use of the system containing the LPR data, and the 
agency’s rules for acquiring and using the data, as described in the 2015 LPR PIA. 
The vendor is required to support the comparison of user lists against training 
records to ensure the training requirement is met for all users. Regarding the alert list, users 
receive training on the importance of promptly removing license plate numbers from alert 
lists to avoid gathering LPR data without adequate justification. Finally, ICE personnel are 
trained to validate  the LPR data against  information in other government databases to 
which they have access. ICE authorized users do not take enforcement action solely based 
on the information they receive from the commercial LPR data service. 
Access 
ICE has agreed to limit the number of individuals who are able to access t he 
commercial LPR database. Agency Manager s ensure that only those who ne ed LPR data 

Privacy Impact Assessment Update 
DHS/ICE/PIA-039(a) LPR 
Page 18 
 
for their mission -related purposes are able to query the data service. Any ICE personnel 
who have accessed the system without authorization or who used the database in an 
inappropriate manner may be disciplined, which includes revoking access to the database. 
Additionally, in the event that an authorized ICE user no longer requires access to the 
commercial database (e.g., the user has left the agency), an administrator in the user’s AOR 
will promptly request deletion of the user’s account and the vendor is required to comply 
within 24 business hours. 
Information Sharing Agreements 
ICE only shares information with agencies outside of DHS consistent with the 
Privacy Act, the routine uses it has published in the relevant SORNs (External 
Investigations and CARIER), and pursuant to information sharing agreements that specify 
permissible uses of the data.  Any agreements by which ICE may share information 
received from the commercial LPR data service are reviewed by the program’s Information 
Systems Security Officer, the ICE Privacy Division, the Office of the Principal Legal 
Advisor, key program stakeholders, the Program Manager , and when required by DHS 
Policy, to DHS for formal review . ICE Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) clearly 
articulate who will access the shared information and how it will be used. If the terms of 
existing MOUs are changed, addenda will be established and reviewed in the same manner 
as described above. 
 
Responsible Officials 
Amber Smith 
Privacy Officer 
U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement 
Department of Homeland Security 
 
Approval Signature 
Original, signed copy on file with the DHS Privacy Office. 
_______________________________ 
Philip S. Kaplan 
Chief Privacy Officer 
Department of Homeland Security 

