Donate
Tools
Newsletter
Investigations
About Us
 Search
File Request
Sign Up
Log In
Flock Damage Costs (Irvine Police Department)
Joey Scott filed this request with the Irvine Police Department of Irvine, CA.
Multi Request	Flock Damage Costs
Submitted	Feb. 7, 2025
Est. Completion	None
STATUS
No Responsive Documents

MuckRock users can file, duplicate, track, and share public records requests like this one. Learn more.

File a Request
3 Communications
 
5 Files
Collapse All

From: Joey Scott

02/07/2025

Subject: California Public Records Act Request: Flock Damage Costs (Irvine Police Department)

Email

To Whom It May Concern:

Pursuant to the California Public Records Act, I hereby request the following records:

Hello,

I am asking for records related to the replacement, relocation, and repair of ALPR cameras.

Please include copies of invoices related to the replacement, relocation, and repair of ALPR cameras and related accessories. Copies should be in .csv format if possible, otherwise related in digital form.

Include locations of the reinstalled or fixed ALPRs.

Please search 2019 to today's date.

The requested documents will be made available to the general public, and this request is not being made for commercial purposes.

In the event that there are fees, I would be grateful if you would inform me of the total charges in advance of fulfilling my request. I would prefer the request filled electronically, by e-mail attachment if available or CD-ROM if not.

Thank you in advance for your anticipated cooperation in this matter. I look forward to receiving your response to this request within 10 calendar days, as the statute requires.

Sincerely,

Joey Scott

From: Muckrock Staff

02/17/2025

From: Irvine Police Department

02/20/2025

Subject: California Public Records Act Request: Flock Damage Costs (Irvine Police Department)

Email

Dear Mr. Scott,

This email responds to your request under the California Public Records Act (Government Code § 7920 et seq.)

Maintenance and replacement of Flock ALPR cameras are handled by Flock, not the Irvine Police Department. No responsive records exist for the relocation of ALPR cameras.

If you have any questions, please feel free to contact me.

Thank you,

[Image]
Kailene Loza | Lead Records Specialist
Irvine Police Department | Public Safety Records
949-724-7492 | 1 Civic Center Plaza, Irvine, CA 92606
kloza@cityofirvine.org<mailto:kloza@cityofirvine.org> | cityofirvine.org<http://cityofirvine.org/>
[Logo Description automatically generated]<https://facebook.com/irvinepd> [Icon Description automatically generated] <https://x.com/irvinepolice> [Icon Description automatically generated] <https://instagram.com/irvinepolice> [Image] <https://nextdoor.com/agency/irvine-pd/?i=gdgzmjsrmzggcdmbdjly>

This transmission is intended for the use of the individuals or entity to which it is addressed and may contain information that is privileged, confidential and exempt from disclosure under applicable law. If the reader of this message is not the intended recipient, or the employee responsible for delivering the message to the recipient, you are hereby notified that any dissemination, distribution or copying of this communication is PROHIBITED. If you receive this communication in error, please call (949) 724-7062 immediately.

﻿
CAUTION: EXTERNAL EMAIL

Irvine Police Department
PRA Office
1 Civic Center Plaza
Irvine, CA 92606-5207

February 10, 2025

To Whom It May Concern:

Pursuant to the California Public Records Act, I hereby request the following records:

Hello,

I am asking for records related to the replacement, relocation, and repair of ALPR cameras.

Please include copies of invoices related to the replacement, relocation, and repair of ALPR cameras and related accessories. Copies should be in .csv format if possible, otherwise related in digital form.

Include locations of the reinstalled or fixed ALPRs.

Please search 2019 to today's date.

The requested documents will be made available to the general public, and this request is not being made for commercial purposes.

In the event that there are fees, I would be grateful if you would inform me of the total charges in advance of fulfilling my request. I would prefer the request filled electronically, by e-mail attachment if available or CD-ROM if not.

Thank you in advance for your anticipated cooperation in this matter. I look forward to receiving your response to this request within 10 calendar days, as the statute requires.

Sincerely,

Joey Scott

View request history, upload responsive documents, and report problems here:
https://www.muckrock.com/

If prompted for a passcode, please enter:
WNKWXHRF

Filed via MuckRock.com
E-mail (Preferred): requests@muckrock.com<mailto:requests@muckrock.com>

PLEASE NOTE OUR NEW ADDRESS
For mailed responses, please address (see note):
MuckRock News
DEPT MR 181097
263 Huntington Ave
Boston, MA 02115

PLEASE NOTE: This request is not filed by a MuckRock staff member, but is being sent through MuckRock by the above in order to better track, share, and manage public records requests. Also note that improperly addressed (i.e., with the requester's name rather than "MuckRock News" and the department number) requests might be returned as undeliverable.


image010

 Download

image009

 Download

image008

 Download

image007

 Download

image006

 Download

For the Record

Keep up on new releases, projects and reporting with MuckRock's weekly newsletter

Subscribe with your email address
Subscribe

By subscribing, you agree to MuckRock's Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.

Together, we hold power to account and shine a light on government transparency

Your donation fuels vital tools such as MuckRock Requests, FOIA Machine, DocumentCloud and oTranscribe that promote civic engagement.

To donate via Apple Pay, please visit our dedicated GiveButter page.
Or mailed to:
MuckRock Foundation
263 Huntington Ave
Boston, MA 02115

You can always find our most current financial statements at MuckRock’s financial transparency page.

If you’d like to support our work with a legacy, a gift of stocks or crypto currency, contact marcia@muckrock.com.

MuckRock is a non-profit collaborative news site that gives you the tools to keep our government transparent and accountable.

Make a Donation

MuckRock is a 501(c)(3) organization.

Our tax identification number is 81-1485228.

Donations are tax-deductible.

© 2010–2026 MuckRock

SECTIONS
News
Projects
Requests
Agencies
Jurisdictions
Newsletter
ABOUT
About Us
Staff
FAQ
API
Editorial Policy
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
Financials
FEEDS
Latest Reporting
Latest Questions
Recently Filed Requests
Recently Completed Requests